# Accessing Google Cloud Platform Credentials

## Launch the GCP (Google Cloud Platform) Web Console

In this course, Udacity offers you a _federated user account_, a temporary Google Cloud Platform user account with limited permissions. We call it a Cloud Lab. You can use the Cloud Lab for educational purposes only.

Before you begin, be sure to log out of any GCP accounts you may already have running. Next, click on the **Cloud Resources** tab to generate the temporary GCP credentials (access keys). You can click on the **Open Cloud Console** button to go to the GCP console.

> Note: Ensure that you do not have a pop-up blocker installed; it may prevent the new tab from launching. Please be sure to allow pop-ups from Udacity.

## GCP Account Restrictions

### 1. Session Limit

Note that there is a certain session time limit. If reached, you will automatically be timed out. As long as you have not used your entire allocated budget, your work will be saved. **You can re-launch using the same "Launch Cloud Gateway" button in the left navigation menu to return to your session**.

### 2. Budget

All Google services are a pay-as-you-go service. Udacity has set a budget for each student to complete their course work. Please understand that these credits are limited and available for you to use judiciously. The budget for this entire course is **$25**. Although, we find about $10 sufficient for most to complete this course.

> Note: If you hit your budget, your session will time out and your work will be lost and unrecoverable.

### 3. No extra credits

We recommend you shut down/delete every Google Cloud resource (e.g., Vertex AI Endpoints, Vertex AI Search apps, and Cloud SQL instances) immediately after usage or if you are stepping away for a few hours. Otherwise, you will run out of your allocated budget.

Udacity will not provide additional credits. In case you exhaust your credits:

- You will lose your progress on the Google Cloud console.
- You will have to use your personal Google Cloud account to finish the remaining course/program.

To better understand pricing, see the [Google Cloud Pricing](https://cloud.google.com/pricing) for all available services.
